paper.md, before:

---
title: Telehealth Provision for Health Providers
author:
 - Dale Sheehan
 - Arindam Basu
 - Add your name to it
 - 
bibliography: zotero.bib 
date: 2020-05-20
tags: telemedicine, health
---

## Notes (removed in the final draft version)
---
- Please do not change anything other than your name in the above block (that block is metadata)
- You can write in plain text or 
    - use the top toolbar to decorate text and add tables etc
- If you want to add citations/references, write like this `[@last_name_year]` (in the actual text do not use the backticks, last_name is "last name of the first author" and "year" is the year of publication, note the underline), then copy paste the reference from your reference manager like Endnote or paste the citation text to the reference section
- Everyone can collaborate on this document simultaneously 
    - the document saves itself
---

### Learning from the experience of clinicians

The ongoing Covid-19 outbreak has generated a shift to telehealth being part of the solution for mitigating community transmission of the disease in New Zealand. The pandemic has posed considerable challenges to healthcare delivery system as respiratory infections preclude face to face health care delivery. This has also resulted in clinicians turning to telephone or video-based consultations for as many interactions as possible. This has enabled health professionals to provide health services from their home while they were in self-isolation.

Covid-19 pandemic has also resulted in an unprecedented opportunity to study the acceptance and usage of telemedicine in real-world practice setting. Not much is known about the perception, utility, or best practices from field on telemedicine is available before the pandemic. Much of what is available appears intuitive and may not be applicable to a post-covid world. Greenhalgh et al (2018) have reported mixed-method research of video consultations in three clinical services (diabetes, diabetes antenatal, and cancer surgery) in the UK National Health Service trust that outpatient video consultations are safe, effective, and convenient for patients in the *few* contexts where clinicians judge them clinically appropriate, and that, clinicians differ in their inclinations to use telemedicine; some need incentives and support [@greenhalgh2018].  Studies on telemedicine conducted before the Covid-19 pandemic by and large suggest that essentially telemedicine hitherto has been used successfully to reduce unnecessary travel and efficiently provides quality care irrespective of a patient's or clinician's location (**need citation**).

Telehealth has become the way that providers can reduce risk while maintaining close relationships with their patients. Some examples include:

 - people accessing essential health services from their home, for example during lockdown most GP consultations were conducted by phone, video
 - follow-up appointments with a specialist, or an appointment with allied health professionals

Historically, there has been a high level of acceptance from patients who have participated in telehealth consultations. As findings from a recent study by Waitemata DHB suggest, over 88% of patients said they would book more telehealth appointments in the future (**need citation**).

While online consultation health services was not new prior to level 4 lockdown there was certainly a massive upsurge in the type of number of telemedicine/telehealth consultations. Anecdotally most clinicians have had access or were aware of the technology and technology use was the focus of available education and guidance. The Tele Health NZ forum and resource centre website (**need citation**) was one such source. There was also new quidelines to accommodate areas such as electronic prescribing especially within mental health services.

This understanding is important because it is needed to develop effective training programs for interprofessional teams to safely manage the medications within an e-prescribing environment. Education is a key part of the quality improvement processes that increase patient safety and has the potential to bring teams together and enhance patient care. If the impact of e-prescribing on team work is understood better than there can be benefits in terms of delivery and patient involvement. The clinical educators within the hospital develop targeted interprofessional workplace learning programmes that capture the learning opportunities that occur as part of the routines of work.

The workplace leanring and practice development literature highlights the power of the what are dubbed as "artefacts" of practice. Artefacts are tools that allow staff to do their job efficiently and effectively are often a critical par tof the patients journey and health record. They allow health professionals to share knowledge across sites and
professions and manage continuity of care. When examined they can allow a deeper understanding of how practice takes place. We know little about the impact the covid -19 environment is having have on relationships and conversations within the context of the telehealth consultation and the strategies clinicians use to manage this.

Given the breadth and diversity of telehealth activity there is now an opportunity to capture the experience of health professionals who have been using telehealth and who have been adapting their practice and refining there telehealth interactions and techniques during this time
to maximise both the efficiencies and effectiveness of telehealth consultations into the future.

This project seeks to explore the experience of clinician's (in parallel with another study looking at pt experience):

 - What worked and did not work for  clinicians? 
 - What tips and strategy's were developed that could inform other      practice?
 - Was it compliant with current guidelines?
 - What were the barriers and enablers?
 - In what situation was it efficient and when was it not?
 - Was it effective and what were the situations when it was not?
 - How were patients prepared for consultations? 
 - Did clinician's vary approach for Maori clients or other ethnicities? 

## Application and impact 

Knowledge develops in practice teams influenced and facilitated by the presence of artefacts of practice.

Both novices and experts learn by "doing" engaging in practice, engaging and sharing in teams (which include the patient) using the tools and artefacts of practice to deliver safe effective patient care. But this
knowledge is often tacit and takes some time to be articulated and shared.

Sound evidence based and sustainable education requires an investigation of the practice and therefore learning environment, the architecture of workplaces and using relevant theory to uncover the curriculum of the workplace. This can become the starting point to designing sustainable workplace programmes that improve patient outcomes and enhance the activities of practice communities

Our research has the potential to

1.  Inform effective training programs for staff especially newly staff
    who enter the healthcare system every year.

2.  Contribute to existing policy and guidelines

3.  Contribute to the body of knowledge internationally about effective
    delivery of telehealth

4.  Build a foundation for future research focusing and specific
    disciple and specialty approaches (eg emergency care, child health,
    mental health, working with Maori and pacific peoples, the eldery
    etc)

## Methodology 

### Practice Research

As an investigation of learning in practice about telehealth and this
thesis is positioned within Schwandt's (2005) "practice knowledge
tradition" characterized by "a praxis orientated approach to enquiry"
(p.328) as it explores learning as participation and engagement in work [@schwandt_2005]. (**need Schwandt 2005 ref from Dale**)

Green's work (2009) highlights the fact that researching practice should
be considered within each of three categories; action, experience and
context. Action is the doing of practice performing an action, carrying
it out. Professional practice is undeniably experiential "one
experiences practice, one lives through it, aware that it is happening;
one remembers it afterwards; one looks forward to it, or not. It is an
object of fear, fantasy and always imagination" [@green_2009] (**need ref from Dale**). Green argues that practice is always contextualized, and that context "needs to be thought of as part of practice" (p.9).

The project takes a pragmatic approach in that it seeks to initiate a
discourse about the practice of tele health in an attempt to bridge were
we are now and where we may end up and importantly it seeks to be useful
within in and for health practice. Fish (2009) uses the term pragmatic
in medical edcuation to highlight a concern with "shaping practice but
attending closely to what is practicable, realistic, expedient and
convenient; articulating this and laying it out open as clearly as
possible; and critiquing, analyzing and interpreting this approach such
that the understandings that emerge can reshape practice" (2009, p.
138). This is the central and transparent goal of this study [@fish_2009] (**need the reference from Dale**).

Qualitative research methodologies will be utilised in order to explore
the clinician's experience, understandings and practices that support
and encourage good practice in telehealth consultations. First
individually and then as a practice community exploring and refining
practice learning for telehealth delivery.

## Methods

The predominate strategy will be qualitative interviewing (individuals
and groups) and modeled on a conversational and joint enquiry style.

Initially semi structured interviews will be conducted one to one and
either by zoom or person to person to allow for flexibility so that the
participants could relate not only their practice but also how their
strategies were formed and shaped by the communication medium and the
Covid-19 environment and then enacted providing descriptions of actual
situated practice [@silverman_2000] (**need ref from Dale**).

Following analysis of this initial data set interviewees will be invited
to engage in an on- line (zoom) focus group to investigate participants'
perceptions stories and case examples. The group process can facilitate
extended discussing and the exploration of experience as well as explain
why particular behaviours and strategies were refined and perpetuated
and now recommended. [@kitzinger 1995] (**need ref from Dale**). In doing so there was a shift
towards the fifth of Kemmis's categories of practice research 'practice
as reflexive, to be studied dialectically' (2009, p20) that is, practice
as reconstituted by human agency and social action [@kemmis_2009] (**need ref from Dale**).

## Data Collection (Sampling and data collection) 

### Phase 1

There exists a forum for health professional educations interested in
research within the health precinct. The intention is to invite new
researchers to join the team as interviewers. This group come a wide
range of professional backgrounds with diverse clinical contacts. They
will be asked to select and recruit one or two clinicians who they know
and who may be willing to be interviewed on their telehealth experience.

Interviewers will be trained in semi structured interviewing and the use
of this projects interview tool. This will include trailing and joint
development of the tool to enhance reliability in data collection

They will be selected for a critical combination of relevant skills
including, interest in workplace learning, communications expertise, and
experience and networks within a practice discipline, interest in
telehealth. We will seek a range of disciplines to achieve an
interprofessional and cross discipline focus to the project.

We will seek to include medicine, nursing, midwifery, allied health
across diverse settings (Primary, secondary and tertiary care
environments) . Through a partnership of researchers and practitioners,
we seek to uncover contexts and practices of work to enhance practice
and ultimately patient care and efficient service delivery. This
diversity of professional imput enrichness data collection and also
widens the impact and reach of the work.

### Phase 2 -- Focus groups

Following analysis of this initial data set interviewees will be invited
to engage in an on- line (zoom) focus group to investigate participants'
perceptions stories and case examples. They will be randomly assigned to
3 groups The group process will facilitate extended discussing and the
exploration of experience, uncovering tacit understandings as well as
explaining why particular behaviours and strategies were refined and
perpetuated and are now recommended. [@kitzinger_1995]. In doing so there
was a shift towards the fifth of Kemmis's categories of practice
research 'practice as reflexive, to be studied dialectically' (2009,
p20) that is, practice as reconstituted by human agency and social
action.

Each group will be facilitated by two members of the research team . One
facilitating engagement the other supporting facilitator monitoring the
conversation chat room and group contribution. The meeting will be
recorded

## Oral Consent Oral and recorded with the interview 

## Information sheet provided with appointment conformation/zoom invite


# References

(Note: please copy and paste the full references in this space)

Commit message:

version-2
Made the editing notes clear and bullet pointed

paper.md, after:

---
title: Telehealth Provision for Health Providers
author:
 - Dale Sheehan
 - Arindam Basu
 - Add your name to it
 - 
bibliography: zotero.bib 
date: 2020-05-20
tags: telemedicine, health
---

## Editing Notes (will be removed in the final draft version)
---
- Please do not change anything other than your name in the above block (that block is metadata)
- You can write in plain text or 
    - use the top toolbar to decorate text and add tables etc
    - Click on the pencil icon to edit, eye icon to view, and split window to get a split window
- If you want to add citations/references:
    - write like this `[@lastnameyyyy]` 
    - next to where you want to place the citations (in the actual text do not use the backticks), 
    - `lastname` is "last name of the first author" and 
    - `yyyy` is the year of publication, 
    - then copy-paste the reference from your reference manager like Endnote or whatever. 
    - Please paste the citation text to the reference section
- Everyone can collaborate on this document simultaneously 
    - the document saves itself
---

### Learning from the experience of clinicians

The ongoing Covid-19 outbreak has generated a shift to telehealth being part of the solution for mitigating community transmission of the disease in New Zealand. The pandemic has posed considerable challenges to healthcare delivery system as respiratory infections preclude face to face health care delivery. This has also resulted in clinicians turning to telephone or video-based consultations for as many interactions as possible. This has enabled health professionals to provide health services from their home while they were in self-isolation.

Covid-19 pandemic has also resulted in an unprecedented opportunity to study the acceptance and usage of telemedicine in real-world practice setting. Not much is known about the perception, utility, or best practices from field on telemedicine is available before the pandemic. Much of what is available appears intuitive and may not be applicable to a post-covid world. Greenhalgh et al (2018) have reported mixed-method research of video consultations in three clinical services (diabetes, diabetes antenatal, and cancer surgery) in the UK National Health Service trust that outpatient video consultations are safe, effective, and convenient for patients in the *few* contexts where clinicians judge them clinically appropriate, and that, clinicians differ in their inclinations to use telemedicine; some need incentives and support [@greenhalgh2018].  Studies on telemedicine conducted before the Covid-19 pandemic by and large suggest that essentially telemedicine hitherto has been used successfully to reduce unnecessary travel and efficiently provides quality care irrespective of a patient's or clinician's location (**need citation**).

Telehealth has become the way that providers can reduce risk while maintaining close relationships with their patients. Some examples include:

 - people accessing essential health services from their home, for example during lockdown most GP consultations were conducted by phone, video
 - follow-up appointments with a specialist, or an appointment with allied health professionals

Historically, there has been a high level of acceptance from patients who have participated in telehealth consultations. As findings from a recent study by Waitemata DHB suggest, over 88% of patients said they would book more telehealth appointments in the future (**need citation**).

While online consultation health services was not new prior to level 4 lockdown there was certainly a massive upsurge in the type of number of telemedicine/telehealth consultations. Anecdotally most clinicians have had access or were aware of the technology and technology use was the focus of available education and guidance. The Tele Health NZ forum and resource centre website (**need citation**) was one such source. There was also new quidelines to accommodate areas such as electronic prescribing especially within mental health services.

This understanding is important because it is needed to develop effective training programs for interprofessional teams to safely manage the medications within an e-prescribing environment. Education is a key part of the quality improvement processes that increase patient safety and has the potential to bring teams together and enhance patient care. If the impact of e-prescribing on team work is understood better than there can be benefits in terms of delivery and patient involvement. The clinical educators within the hospital develop targeted interprofessional workplace learning programmes that capture the learning opportunities that occur as part of the routines of work.

The workplace leanring and practice development literature highlights the power of the what are dubbed as "artefacts" of practice. Artefacts are tools that allow staff to do their job efficiently and effectively are often a critical par tof the patients journey and health record. They allow health professionals to share knowledge across sites and
professions and manage continuity of care. When examined they can allow a deeper understanding of how practice takes place. We know little about the impact the covid -19 environment is having have on relationships and conversations within the context of the telehealth consultation and the strategies clinicians use to manage this.

Given the breadth and diversity of telehealth activity there is now an opportunity to capture the experience of health professionals who have been using telehealth and who have been adapting their practice and refining there telehealth interactions and techniques during this time
to maximise both the efficiencies and effectiveness of telehealth consultations into the future.

This project seeks to explore the experience of clinician's (in parallel with another study looking at pt experience):

 - What worked and did not work for  clinicians? 
 - What tips and strategy's were developed that could inform other      practice?
 - Was it compliant with current guidelines?
 - What were the barriers and enablers?
 - In what situation was it efficient and when was it not?
 - Was it effective and what were the situations when it was not?
 - How were patients prepared for consultations? 
 - Did clinician's vary approach for Maori clients or other ethnicities? 

## Application and impact 

Knowledge develops in practice teams influenced and facilitated by the presence of artefacts of practice.

Both novices and experts learn by "doing" engaging in practice, engaging and sharing in teams (which include the patient) using the tools and artefacts of practice to deliver safe effective patient care. But this
knowledge is often tacit and takes some time to be articulated and shared.

Sound evidence based and sustainable education requires an investigation of the practice and therefore learning environment, the architecture of workplaces and using relevant theory to uncover the curriculum of the workplace. This can become the starting point to designing sustainable workplace programmes that improve patient outcomes and enhance the activities of practice communities

Our research has the potential to

1.  Inform effective training programs for staff especially newly staff
    who enter the healthcare system every year.

2.  Contribute to existing policy and guidelines

3.  Contribute to the body of knowledge internationally about effective
    delivery of telehealth

4.  Build a foundation for future research focusing and specific
    disciple and specialty approaches (eg emergency care, child health,
    mental health, working with Maori and pacific peoples, the eldery
    etc)

## Methodology 

### Practice Research

As an investigation of learning in practice about telehealth and this
thesis is positioned within Schwandt's (2005) "practice knowledge
tradition" characterized by "a praxis orientated approach to enquiry"
(p.328) as it explores learning as participation and engagement in work [@schwandt2005]. (**need Schwandt 2005 ref from Dale**)

Green's work (2009) highlights the fact that researching practice should
be considered within each of three categories; action, experience and
context. Action is the doing of practice performing an action, carrying
it out. Professional practice is undeniably experiential "one
experiences practice, one lives through it, aware that it is happening;
one remembers it afterwards; one looks forward to it, or not. It is an
object of fear, fantasy and always imagination" [@green2009] (**need ref from Dale**). Green argues that practice is always contextualized, and that context "needs to be thought of as part of practice" (p.9).

The project takes a pragmatic approach in that it seeks to initiate a
discourse about the practice of tele health in an attempt to bridge were
we are now and where we may end up and importantly it seeks to be useful
within in and for health practice. Fish (2009) uses the term pragmatic
in medical edcuation to highlight a concern with "shaping practice but
attending closely to what is practicable, realistic, expedient and
convenient; articulating this and laying it out open as clearly as
possible; and critiquing, analyzing and interpreting this approach such
that the understandings that emerge can reshape practice" (2009, p.
138). This is the central and transparent goal of this study [@fish2009] (**need the reference from Dale**).

Qualitative research methodologies will be utilised in order to explore
the clinician's experience, understandings and practices that support
and encourage good practice in telehealth consultations. First
individually and then as a practice community exploring and refining
practice learning for telehealth delivery.

## Methods

The predominate strategy will be qualitative interviewing (individuals
and groups) and modeled on a conversational and joint enquiry style.

Initially semi structured interviews will be conducted one to one and
either by zoom or person to person to allow for flexibility so that the
participants could relate not only their practice but also how their
strategies were formed and shaped by the communication medium and the
Covid-19 environment and then enacted providing descriptions of actual
situated practice [@silverman2000] (**need ref from Dale**).

Following analysis of this initial data set interviewees will be invited
to engage in an on- line (zoom) focus group to investigate participants'
perceptions stories and case examples. The group process can facilitate
extended discussing and the exploration of experience as well as explain
why particular behaviours and strategies were refined and perpetuated
and now recommended. [@kitzinger1995] (**need ref from Dale**). In doing so there was a shift
towards the fifth of Kemmis's categories of practice research 'practice
as reflexive, to be studied dialectically' (2009, p20) that is, practice
as reconstituted by human agency and social action [@kemmis2009] (**need ref from Dale**).

## Data Collection (Sampling and data collection) 

### Phase 1

There exists a forum for health professional educations interested in
research within the health precinct. The intention is to invite new
researchers to join the team as interviewers. This group come a wide
range of professional backgrounds with diverse clinical contacts. They
will be asked to select and recruit one or two clinicians who they know
and who may be willing to be interviewed on their telehealth experience.

Interviewers will be trained in semi structured interviewing and the use
of this projects interview tool. This will include trailing and joint
development of the tool to enhance reliability in data collection

They will be selected for a critical combination of relevant skills
including, interest in workplace learning, communications expertise, and
experience and networks within a practice discipline, interest in
telehealth. We will seek a range of disciplines to achieve an
interprofessional and cross discipline focus to the project.

We will seek to include medicine, nursing, midwifery, allied health
across diverse settings (Primary, secondary and tertiary care
environments) . Through a partnership of researchers and practitioners,
we seek to uncover contexts and practices of work to enhance practice
and ultimately patient care and efficient service delivery. This
diversity of professional imput enrichness data collection and also
widens the impact and reach of the work.

### Phase 2 -- Focus groups

Following analysis of this initial data set interviewees will be invited
to engage in an on- line (zoom) focus group to investigate participants'
perceptions stories and case examples. They will be randomly assigned to
3 groups The group process will facilitate extended discussing and the
exploration of experience, uncovering tacit understandings as well as
explaining why particular behaviours and strategies were refined and
perpetuated and are now recommended. [@kitzinger1995]. In doing so there
was a shift towards the fifth of Kemmis's categories of practice
research 'practice as reflexive, to be studied dialectically' (2009,
p20) that is, practice as reconstituted by human agency and social
action.

Each group will be facilitated by two members of the research team . One
facilitating engagement the other supporting facilitator monitoring the
conversation chat room and group contribution. The meeting will be
recorded

## Oral Consent Oral and recorded with the interview 

## Information sheet provided with appointment conformation/zoom invite


# References

(Note: please copy and paste the full references in this space)
